What is the need for file handling in C?
File handling allows programs to store data permanently, read and write large amounts of data, and share data between program runs.

How do you declare and use a file pointer?
A file pointer is declared as: FILE *fp; It is used to access files for reading, writing, or appending.

List and explain file opening modes in C.
"r"  - Open for reading (file must exist)
"w"  - Open for writing (creates new or overwrites existing file)
"a"  - Open for appending (creates new or appends to existing file)
"r+" - Open for reading and writing (file must exist)
"w+" - Open for reading and writing (creates new or overwrites)
"a+" - Open for reading and appending (creates new or appends)

What is the syntax for opening a file using fopen()?
FILE *fp = fopen("filename.txt", "mode");

What does fclose() do? Why is it important?
fclose(fp) closes the file pointed to by fp. It is important to free system resources and ensure data is written to disk.

How do you write to a file using fputc() or fprintf()?
fputc('A', fp); // writes a character
fprintf(fp, "Hello %d", num); // writes formatted data

How do you read from a file using fgetc() or fscanf()?
ch = fgetc(fp); // reads a character
fscanf(fp, "%d", &num); // reads formatted data

What is the function of feof()?
feof(fp) returns true if the end of the file has been reached.

What is the use of fseek()? Explain its parameters.
fseek(fp, offset, origin) moves the file pointer to a specific location. offset: number of bytes, origin: SEEK_SET (start), SEEK_CUR (current), SEEK_END (end).

What does rewind() do in a file?
rewind(fp) moves the file pointer to the beginning of the file.

What does ftell() return?
ftell(fp) returns the current position of the file pointer (in bytes from the start).

How are text and binary files different in C?
Text files store data as readable characters; binary files store data in raw byte format. Binary files are more efficient for non-text data.

How do you handle file errors if fopen() fails?
Always check if fopen() returns NULL. If so, print an error message and handle the error gracefully.